.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" (C) Copyright 2014 Jean-Francois Dockes <dockes@y.dockes.com>,
.\"
.TH UPMPDCLI 1 "February 10, 2014"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.SH NAME
upmpdcli \- UPnP Media Renderer front-end to MPD, the Music Player Daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B upmpdcli
.RI [ options ] " files" ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBupmpdcli\fP is a program which should be run permanently (typically as a
daemon, or started upon logging in), and acts as an UPnP Media Renderer,
using the Music Player Daemon, \fBmpd\fP, for actually playing the
music. This allows integrating the high quality and widely ported MPD
inside an UPnP-based music network, typically with a remote running on a
tablet or phone.
.SH OPTIONS
This program uses short options. A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-h\fR \fIhost\fP
Define the host machine on which \fBmpd\fP runs.
.TP
.B \-f\fR \fIfriendly_name\fP
Set the name which will be displayed by controllers for this instance after
they search the network. 
.TP
.B \-p\fR \fIport\fP
Define the IP port used by \fBmpd\fP.
.TP
.B \-q\fR \fI0|1\fP
Decide if we own the MPD queue (-q 1) or not (-q 0). We own it by default,
and clear it fearlessly.
.TP
.B \-d\fR \fIlogfilename\fP
Send debug/trace messages to \fIlogfilename\fP.
.TP
.B \-l\fR \fIlevel\fP
Set the log verbosity (0-4).
.TP
.B \-D\fR
Daemonize (fork and run in background). Using -D for this is the reverse
from usual convention, but the authors found it better to avoid surprising
naïve users with an unexpected disparition of the program...
.TP
.B \-i\fR \fIiface\fP
Define the network interface to use for UPnP.
.TP
.B \-O\fR \f1/0\fP
Start the OpenHome ohMedia services (esp. PlayList), or not.
.TP
.B \-P\fR \fIport\fP
Define the IP port to use for UPnP.
.TP
.B \-c\fR \fIconfigfile\fP
Use the configuration from \fIconfigfile\fP. The configuration file has a
simple \fIname = value\fP format and can set the same values as the command
line options (with a lower priority). The parameter names are
\fImpdhost\fP, \fImpdport\fP, \fIfriendlyname\fP, \fIlogfilename\fP,
\fIloglevel\fP, \fIupnpiface\fP, \fIupnpport\fP. The configuration file can
also be used to set the MPD password (\fImpdpassword\fP), and the UPnP IP
address (instead of interface name, \fIupnpip\fP).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mpd (1),
